you know what you need more head how
about five the new prusa XL we just got
this in and I've been really excited
about this for a long time so this is
the semi-assembled so I'm probably going
to rip all the parts out and then
disappear for a little while we' got a
rip
tab oh she ripped
good always looks bigger in person
doesn't it first thing I know notice
immediately is the size of the gummy
bear bag has increased a lot the
instructions tell you when to eat how
many it's actually Great Looks like
we've got some filament already which is
nice the Galaxy black oh yeah that's
right we got a little receipt for all
the pre-flight checks that they've done
for us it has a full LCD control panel
just like the mark 4S and all of the
other ones there's our multi-tool
extruder let's have a look at that oh
yeah oh yeah this is exciting so it's
going to be five of these so here is the
next Struder with the automatic tool
changing system on it oh yeah oh yeah
that's going to be great now this model
does come in a few different varieties
from like one head to up to five it's a
really good way to do multimaterial
especially if you're going to be
changing colors so you can do multiple
colors or you can do multiple types of
filament looks like they've also sent us
a nice little care package I don't think
this is standard we have a second uh
heated bed this is the X cell Pei spring
Shield sheet which is really nice and
then a whole bunch of filament oh my God
yeah we got some BR of filament look at
all of this okay all right maybe we will
be doing multicolor prints today ooh it
looks like they've sent us some spare
nozzles that's pretty cool these are
hardened which means we can print things
like carbon fiber impregnated nylon and
stuff like that and these are part of
the next Struder system which means that
changing these out is pretty simple my
understanding is that we can't mix
nozzle diameter so these are all 0.4 mm
this model comes with both ethernet and
Wi-Fi capabilities it shares a lot of
similarities between the markv but they
have the new segmented bed so the markv
has one giant bed whereas this one has
what looks like 16 individual segments
and each of these can heat up uh
individually which means that you're not
heating up an entire bed if you're only
going to be printing right on the front
or right in the center which is kind of
cool of course you know giant build area
so this one is 14 in by 14 in x 14 in
which is absolutely massive which is
really cool to see uh and this is spring
steel and magnetic so it just kind of
sits in with a couple little locating
pins at the back and then snaps down
which is great let's get this
out looks like we have linear rails for
each of the motion systems compared to
something like the Mark 4 which has one
motor that controls the x axis this has
two which work in Tandon to control both
the X and the the Y just like the markv
each of these extruder assemblies have a
load cell built in which means that we
can home and calibrate and do everything
that we need directly through the nozzle
all of these are direct drive extruders
so there's a little stepper motor in
here which will pull the filament
through we've got channels on the side
here with filament run out so this will
pop into the carriage here and then
these two locking tabs head over and
click in and then that holds the whole
extruder assembly so we'll have five of
them at the back here and then the whole
head assembly here Will come there and
then release them and undock them and
then move away and pick up the next one
really really neat system very excited
looks like we're going to have to
install the LCD and control panel
ourselves that's going to go right about
there and it looks pretty much identical
to the markv both printers seem to share
a lot of similarities which is kind of
nice I believe this one does have
chamber illumination but I think that's
mostly some of the differences looks
like our XY plate here is a giant block
of mil aluminum which is awesome to see
and then of course yeah the linear rails
are also great still got some
traditional 3D printed Parts like these
uh top Z AIS supports and things like
that but most of it seems to be really
quite high quality aluminum parts looks
like they've given us a test print in
here which is cool to see turning it
around to have a look at the back I
believe these have three separate power
supplies you're going to have five
heaters plus the entire bed you're going
to need quite a bit of power looks like
we've got our standard aluminum
Extrusion channels which kind of make up
most of the frame and it's got some nice
blanking plates in here kind of like
your original creality or something like
that and here's one of the mounts for
the extruders they're going to sort of
sit back here and that'll feed your
power and your data and all of your
filament through there it's got these
two locating pins on the back so this
slots in here like that and it looks
like we've got some incredibly powerful
magnets that kind of keep it located
it's really
important that these are in the same
position every single time with we have
a single cable which connects to the hot
end these are probably just going to
fall down here and plug into the control
box which it looks like it's right here
on this side of the control box we have
our ethernet Jack and there's also a
USBC Port even though I'm not quite sure
what that's for yet I'm going to flip it
on its back and let's have a look at
what the bottom
inails we've got our Z Drive Motors here
and then nice big metal sheet at the
bottom oh look at all of those you can
see the individual cables which go to
every single of the 16 heating zones ah
okay here's a spool holder let's have a
look at that they're telescoping so they
kind of I guess just snap into each
other that's nice oh they're going to go
into these channels here easy and then
they're adjustable cuz I've got some big
spools we print with some large spools
cuz we do so much all the time here we
have quite a nice toolkit it looks like
we've given us a full-size screwdriver
even though we probably won't be using
that that would be illegal uh was where
was a pair of pliers and some Allen keys
and wrenches which we're going to need
to do all the screwing little thumb
drive here which is great for firmware
or printing but you don't actually need
that as this has proofs to connect
everything built in which allows you to
manage multiple of these for a print
form if necessary I think we have about
eight or so Mark fours now which are all
connected over ethernet and controllable
from one central location which is great
I really like seeing ethernet on
printers because it's a little bit more
reliable and a lot more faster although
if you want you can run this completely
offline absolutely no cloud service
necessary they know who I'm talking
about each of these nozzles need to be
put in and then ran and then it has to
go through all of its pre-flight checks
there's a hole right in the center where
you put a little Peg and then you're
going to be moving each of these nozzles
onto that to make sure that their Z
height is known perfectly and then it'll
kind of bump into all of the sides of
them and so it knows its X and Y
coordinates and then it'll store all of
those offsets internally and then you
won't have to worry about that again now
if you don't mind I'd like to be alone
with this thing for a little while but
not before I tell you about our sponsor
thanks to War Thunder for sponsoring
today's video War Thunder is a
free-to-play and comprehensive vehicular
combat game there's an arsenal of over
2500 different vehicles for you to Pilot
War Thunder is about the details like
how it feels to drive the war machine
The Sounds it makes and how they fall
apart as you defeat your enemies their
signature x-ray damage system lets you
see how each vehicle falls apart and
exactly where a vehicle is hit so you
can strategize for the next battle join
over 70 million people around the world
on PC and consoles with crossplay down
at the links
below hello future Dan here uh I let a
print run overnight we did a nice
multicolor Kirby this little guy took
about 4 and 1/2 hours compared to some
of the other little layer tests that I
did I want to try this one overnight as
this one has inter layer nozzle changes
compared to the little tests that I
start started out with which every layer
was a different material I also switched
the bed type this is the textured bed
compared to the smooth one that we tried
these tests on you can see on both of
them that it's left these long stringing
things after it purges all the nozzles
before it starts printing on both of
them like I didn't clean up any of the
mess that it left cuz I kind of wanted
to see how that ended up and yeah it's a
bit it's a bit of a messy printer but I
mean these are kind of easy to deal with
uh I normally keep a little waist basket
next to my printers anyway but this one
in particular is a bit snotty all right
let's see how it releases from the
bed okay just slides off instantly
that's kind of great somebody put a
gummy bear in
here whatever uh and we have a new type
of purge Tower too which is kind of cool
yeah this is a five color print looking
at this it seems pretty good there
wasn't really any stringing or much at
all between the purge Tower and the part
itself not also seeing too much of the Z
height ringing the Joel the 3D printing
based greatest goat of all time noticed
when in his review as well there's some
slight overhang stuff there but that
seems pretty okay and other people are
also noticing that there was some
blobbing in between where you know a
little bit of a different color would
stay stuck to one of the nozzles maybe a
little tiny bit in the eye there but I'm
not noticing too much might just be a
larger particular piece in the marble
pla that they sent it's pretty good
mechanical strength between the two
colors is also really good and kind of
nice thing was that I just colored this
inside PR slicer itself um so software
works well for just filling a
pre-existing singular model Purge towers
are kind of cool in this system the time
between layer changes is nearly instant
it just basically go z z z and then
continues which is really nice uh this
model printed in about 4 and 1/2 hours
and contained over
14,500 individual layer changes which is
insane for that amount of time and yeah
on the the inside you can kind of wow
that's strong all right on the inside
you can kind of see how it builds out
those interesting little layer lines
this not too much in here it's mostly
empty uh depending on the severity of
the layer change or how many are in one
layer it'll do you know a couple little
lines and it'll do a little bit of a
drag and then go back and change its
tool head it's really neat this is kind
of exactly the level of performance that
I would expect from prusia um the build
quality is excellent the printing
performance is excellent and uh the
instructions were also excellent um I
wasn't expecting it to be this kind of
simple to put together this is the fully
assembled one where basically all I had
to do is just attach the hotends and
that went together really nicely the
full calibration included in the
software is easy to follow and um very
simple it fits our giant spools of you
know 2 and 12 kg of pla which is great I
think some of the issue comes down to
maybe price and who is going to be
buying something like this I know
definitely we're going to be using it
here we don't have a printer with this
size build volume and certainly not
something that's easy to use um it'll
fit right into the rest of our pushe
ecosystem with their little ethernet and
Wi-Fi connected thing but I mean they'll
even allow you to break a little piece
on the circuit board and load unsigned
firmware too if you wanted to go a bit
further with it I know there's some
complaints about camera compatibility
but that's not really something we care
too much or value here this printer here
would be the most expensive offer they
do which is the fully assembled and the
five head system which comes it to
$4,000 which is a pretty hefty price to
pay for something like this um there are
other offerings that are cheaper that
will do multimaterial the price category
and the kind of competence of this would
be for somebody who wants prints to
happen constantly without worry you can
just kind of you'll know that it's
mostly going to work 90% of the time
because you have 5 nozzles compared to a
single nozzle or even another multi-
nozzle which has to purge the nozzle
every single time that it does a color
change pull the filament back cut it you
know do whatever like that all of these
are just ready to go and so the layer
times for doing this little wipe Tower
are really quick when I'm prototyping
stuff for here I'll do multiple
revisions on a nice fast printer and
then I'll batch print them on our puses
because they're reliable and they're
dimensionally accurate and we just know
they work you just set it and then leave
maybe I'm going to be doing five or six
different types of materials on one
plate maybe I want to test a prototype
in five different materials
simultaneously that's that's kind of
your option I think this would probably
be a lot better for multimaterial rather
than multi color if you want to think
about it that way I think the opposite
end of the spectrum the on head
semi-assembled variety which may be more
like a home user or a hobbyist or
something like that who has time to
spare uh which is
$2,000 is probably going to be the best
entry point into a build volume of this
size now that's about twice the price of
an entry level Mark 4 but you get a hell
of a lot more build volume I was doing
some parts recently and I needed to do a
giant motherboard tray and I had to
segment that into five or six different
pieces instead of just being able to
print it on something like this which is
great so having a massive build volume
can be useful you can buy both of the
expansion boards that are included in
this model including the extra hot end
one and the Wi-Fi card that kind of just
slot in like PCR cards are kind of neat
I'm also happy to see that they're
including each of the individual little
bed tiles cuz I might maybe want to buy
those for another project that I'm
working on as a reminder this kind of
isn't a review this is just First
Impressions and unboxing so I think this
printer warrants maybe a little bit more
research I am very happy with this
though I think this is going to meet our
needs perfectly because we're
distributed around the buildings having
this printer web connected with five
filaments loaded is really useful
because somebody from any building can
connect into this and then just pick a
filament that's loaded into it and print
the effectively that way the lack of
built-in camera though does make it
difficult to start a print to make sure
that there's not already a part still
waiting there like this was sitting
overnight and then I come in in the
morning and start another one and then
just destroy it I don't know I think you
did a great job good job prusia you make
you make good things if you like this
why don't you check out the video that
we did on the prusia markv we have loads
of those and we love
them love love them we love the bru my
precious bru